docs/courses/latest/en/7.2/liferay-dxp-7.2-business-users/content-creator/digital-experiences-sites/exercise-4-add-public-and-private-sites.md, before:

# Exercise 4: Add Public and Private Sites to the Platform

[$LIFERAY_LEARN_YOUTUBE_URL$]=https://www.youtube.com/embed/ojd4UOPfiUU

## Exercise Goals
	
* Create the Livingstone Loop employee intranet as a private site on the Livingstone platform
* Manage site membership, configuration, and page configuration in the new site

## Add the Livingstone Loop Employee Intranet

1. **Go to** _Control Panel_ → _Sites_ → _Sites_ in the _Menu_.
2. **Click** the _Add_ button.
3. **Choose** _Intranet Site_.
4. **Type** `Livingstone Loop`.
5. **Check** the _Create default pages a private ..._
6. **Click** the _Save_ button.
7. **Type** `Livingstone's main employee intranet site.` as the _Description_.
8. **Open** the _Membership Type_ drop-down under the _Membership Options_ heading.
9. **Choose** _Private_.
10. **Click** the _Save_ button at the bottom of the page.

<img src="../images/exercise-images/add-private-site.png" style="max-height:28%">

## Add the Livingstone Life Blog Site

1. **Go to** _Control Panel_ → _Sites_ → _Sites_ in the _Menu_.
2. **Click** the _Add_ button.
3. **Choose** _Blank Site_.
4. **Type** `Livingstone Life`.
5. **Click** the _Save_ button.
6. **Type** `Livingstone's blog site.` as the _Description_.
7. **Open** the _Membership Type_ drop-down under the _Membership Options_ heading.
8. **Choose** _Restricted_.
9. **Click** the _Save_ button at the bottom.

<img src="../images/exercise-images/add-blog-site.png" style="max-height:25%">

## View All the Sites

1. **Go to** _Control Panel_ → _Sites_ → _Sites_ in the _Menu_.
	- You should see four sites.
2. **Click** the _Livingstone Hotels & Resorts_ site.
	- You should see at least three sites. (If you did the Bonus Exercises in the last section, you should see more.)

<img src="../images/exercise-images/exercises-1.4-final.png" style="max-height:30%">

---

## Bonus Exercises

1. Add Child Sites to the Livingstone Loop intranet. Make one for the Hotel Management employees and one for the Livingstone executives.
2. Create an organization and organization site for one of the hotel location's employees. Add private pages to the organization site. Create a new user and add them to the organization. Log in as your user and access the private pages in the organization site. 

---

## Previous Step

* [Manage Site Configuration](./manage-site-configuration.md)

Commit message:

Fixed syntax for images in Digital Experiences Sites module

docs/courses/latest/en/7.2/liferay-dxp-7.2-business-users/content-creator/digital-experiences-sites/exercise-4-add-public-and-private-sites.md, after:

# Exercise 4: Add Public and Private Sites to the Platform

[$LIFERAY_LEARN_YOUTUBE_URL$]=https://www.youtube.com/embed/ojd4UOPfiUU

## Exercise Goals
	
* Create the Livingstone Loop employee intranet as a private site on the Livingstone platform
* Manage site membership, configuration, and page configuration in the new site

## Add the Livingstone Loop Employee Intranet

1. **Go to** _Control Panel_ → _Sites_ → _Sites_ in the _Menu_.
2. **Click** the _Add_ button.
3. **Choose** _Intranet Site_.
4. **Type** `Livingstone Loop`.
5. **Check** the _Create default pages a private ..._
6. **Click** the _Save_ button.
7. **Type** `Livingstone's main employee intranet site.` as the _Description_.
8. **Open** the _Membership Type_ drop-down under the _Membership Options_ heading.
9. **Choose** _Private_.
10. **Click** the _Save_ button at the bottom of the page.

![The General Site Settings page with Membership set to Private.](./images/exercise-images/add-private-site.png)

## Add the Livingstone Life Blog Site

1. **Go to** _Control Panel_ → _Sites_ → _Sites_ in the _Menu_.
2. **Click** the _Add_ button.
3. **Choose** _Blank Site_.
4. **Type** `Livingstone Life`.
5. **Click** the _Save_ button.
6. **Type** `Livingstone's blog site.` as the _Description_.
7. **Open** the _Membership Type_ drop-down under the _Membership Options_ heading.
8. **Choose** _Restricted_.
9. **Click** the _Save_ button at the bottom.

![The General Settings for the Livingstone Life blog site.](./images/exercise-images/add-blog-site.png)

## View All the Sites

1. **Go to** _Control Panel_ → _Sites_ → _Sites_ in the _Menu_.
	- You should see four sites.
2. **Click** the _Livingstone Hotels & Resorts_ site.
	- You should see at least three sites. (If you did the Bonus Exercises in the last section, you should see more.)

![Three sites with Membership Type circled: Open, Restricted, and Private.](./images/exercise-images/exercises-1.4-final.png)

---

## Bonus Exercises

1. Add Child Sites to the Livingstone Loop intranet. Make one for the Hotel Management employees and one for the Livingstone executives.
2. Create an organization and organization site for one of the hotel location's employees. Add private pages to the organization site. Create a new user and add them to the organization. Log in as your user and access the private pages in the organization site. 

---

## Previous Step

* [Manage Site Configuration](./manage-site-configuration.md)
